# Vehicle Management and Rental System
This is a project built for the Database Systems course of my university. It is built on the concepts of **CRUD**, where all the four operations can be successfully completed using this system. The core functionality of this system is for customers to book vehicles according to their necessity. It also features some functionalities for the owners or the administrative personnel of the company. Login for both types of users are available. The customers can book a vehicle by providing their **name, address, email, phone, departure date, destination** and **the vehicle they want to book**. Before that, they must be a registered user and they will have to login each time they want to use the system. <br />
<br />
The owners have access to some more features. They have a total of **4 options** after logging in. Firstly, they can check the list of all the bookings made by the customers. If needed, they can update any information. Secondly, they can create entries about the vehicles that they are offering on rent. To create a vehicle entry, they will have to specify **the model name of the vehicle, the price per day for booking that vehicle** and **the garage to which it will be assigned for servicing**. Similar to the booking entries, the data of any vehicle can be updated as well. Thirdly, the owners can keep a list of the garages where they will send their vehicles for servicing. To create a garage entry, they will have to provide **the name of the garage, the address** and **the phone number associated to that garage**. Finally, they can also keep a list of the employees of those garages, since they will have to pay those employees for their work. To keep their data, the owners will have to enter **the employee's name, their rate per hour of work, the hours they have worked in total** and **the garage in which they work**. Both the garage and the service information can be updated or deleted according to need. These are the four features available to the owners. <br />
<br />
Some additional features were made available for the owners. The expenditure on an individual vehicle for servicing, along with the total expenditure of all servicing can be seen by the owners. The revenue generated from a vehicle and the number of times it has been booked can also be seen by them. These features were included by joining the tables using SQL. The whole project has been built using **PHP** and it has been connected to a database built in **phpMyAdmin**. Querying from the database has been done using **SQL**. 
